in some ways um what David did through
anthropology was bring to life what
Gustav Landa described as the state
being a relationship and we change the
state by Contracting different kinds of
relationship and we need to know no more
than that it's possible to do that
simply planting the seed of possibility
is a powerful enough thing to do and
actually you know in some ways Anarchist
will to especially ones um of the
theoretical bent ought to relax and and
take that really as the as the main
message that actually right now we just
need to believe in possibility and that
brings me to my sort of final remarks
and that is the other side of David's
work which was not just to use um
anthropology to enrich and modify
anarchism but to use anarchism to enrich
and modify Anthology or more broadly
academic life it mattered to David to
bring idea to bring Anarchist ideas back
into the academy and it mattered because
actually the academy is one of the least
likely spaces that you'll ever find
anarchy particularly not a variety of
Anarchy that stresses possibility rather
than foregone
conclusion traditionally conventionally
our intellectual culture has rested on
the assumption that to do in
anthropology for example to do something
like ethnography is a sort of either
preliminary or a secondary exercise but
it's never the main event what you do is
either you have a theory and then you go
out and collect the data to substantiate
it or you collect a bunch of data and
you infer from that a theory and there
is always the notion that theory is how
we make progress intellectual progress
that we aggregate this information and
that this way we can cope with much more
complexity but of course it's not true
anytime you make that kind of a
selection you you cause a reduction you
you cause a reduction in the world you
actually lose more complexity we
lose we even lose the memory that we
ought to be looking or even asking
different kinds of questions so I think
the other element that really matters to
me about David's work someone who is
within the academy occasionally most of
the time fairly awkwardly so or or
slightly uncomfortably so actually his
version of Anarchy releases this whole
it's an invitation to a whole new
radical way to do intellectual life to
be much more open rather than closing
things down to not to and this is not
the same as
relativism um it is in the sense that no
position is that static for long enough
positions are always encountering and
modifying and adapting and changing one
another it genuinely is a sort of free
flowing an organic um phenomenon so I
think David asks us to disentangle
knowledge from
Authority and to reframe that
relationship to knowledge as a form of
Discovery and above all knowledge as an
openness to possibilities and that is
why right now at this moment in time he
matters more than ever and his ideas
matter more than ever so that's my pitch
to you um I'm hoping that you've got
lots of thoughts or questions or
comments about any of this sort of
related um related topics or or James
equally if you do too